In Space Brigade you play as a starship pilot who is defending their planet from the 
strange alien race that has begun an attack. In your battle against the aliens, your 
battleship is only supplied with a limited number of shots from the start. Luckily for 
you, you are able to engage your handy shield that can absorb certain oncoming hazards 
and be used as your own weapon! Your battleship is also equipped with state-of-the-art 
hacking technology, which on occasion you will be able to fire at your enemy and gain 
control of them. Giving you another teammate at your side. Will you be able to use your 
arsenal effectively to fend off the opposing aliens? Or will they get the best of you 
and destroy your only home?
 
The controls of Space Brigade may seem rather complex at first, but over time you will 
become familiar with them. You move with either W, A, S, D or R-Arrow, L-Arrow, 
Up-Arrow, Down-Arrow. To fire your shot, you press the SPACE button. To engage you 
shield, which only absorbs the shots from Blue Aliens, you press SHIFT. However, be 
warned that you CANNOT fire bullets and have your shields engaged at the same time. 
Every few kills you get against the aliens you will be able to fire a hacking shot 
that will control an enemy alien and have them fight by your side. When displayed, to 
fire a hacking shot press E. By the way, you can hack up to 6 aliens at a time. Also, 
the bullets the hacked aliens shoot do not count towards your overall bullet amount.
 
The development of Space Brigade was an extremely long and restless process, which 
ultimately turned out to be a very fun and fulfilling experience. When I had first 
begun working on the game Monday, January 14, I had little to no experience in Unity. 
I had only previously dabbled in recreating very small project people had posted 
tutorials on YouTube. So, when I was told to make a whole game by myself in the span 
of about 10 days, it was safe to say that I was extremely stressed. I had no idea 
or how to start. Thankfully for me, I had kept those previous projects I mentioned 
and decided to build upon one of them. The starting project was an extremely basic 
Space Invaders type game. With the only horizontal movement to the player and a few 
rows of aliens slowly falling towards you. This alien theme gave me the idea to somehow 
adapt it into a faster paced shoot ‘em up style game.  However, with such a basic idea 
I knew I had to add a little something to it to spice up the gameplay. That’s when the 
limited bullets and shield came into play, and eventually the hacking idea as well. 
From the beginning, I had been creating all the art by myself and with it also being my 
first time making my own pixel art I have to say I am very pleased with how most of 
the sprites turned out.  Despite me being a Software Engineer major, getting familiar 
with C# and Unity was pretty hard at first. And after dozens of hours of coding, 
testing, and Googling I have to say I feel extremely comfortable with most of the 
basic and intermediate stuff that can be done with Unity. All-in-all, while my project 
may not be the most jaw-dropping of the ones being presented in class I have to say I 
am extremely proud of what I have created in such a short time frame and with the little
game-making knowledge I started out with. Also, when began the project I wasn’t 
exactly sure what kind of strengths I would be able to present to the class. But 
after the fact, I have learned that I not only have good coding knowledge, but I 
will also be able to help with both art(depending on how detailed it is) and the 
overall game design. Now that this project is done, I’m looking forward to seeing 
what I can make next with Unity.
